docs/issue_template.md, before:

Add a proposal title above that concisely summarizes the problem or suggestion. For best results, add the title after adding all the other parts of this proposal so you can be sure that the title reflects the content.

## Problem
1. Replace this text with a clear statement of the problem that needs to be solved. If feasible, include specific evidence or examples (e.g., screen shots, data) in support of the understanding of the problem. If this is a bug, [report it in the Daemo repository](https://github.com/crowdresearch/daemo/issues/new) instead of here.


## Proposal
2. If you have a solution to this problem and you will implement it, replace this text with a clear statement of the solution you propose to implement, including any relevant supporting files. It can strengthen your proposal to include *pros* and *cons*. If you have no solution, remove this Proposal section.
3. Add yourself as an assignee to this proposal.
4. If this is a strategic milestone, add the `strategy` milestone.

### Implications
5. Replace this text with short-term (and, if relevant, long-term) implications of executing this proposal. If it is a strategy proposl, long-term implications are required.

## Contact
8. Add your Slack username, and if appropriate, a Slack channel where discussion is taking place.

<!--- Do not delete this section --->
---
**To officially join in**, add yourself as an assignee to the proposal. **To break consensus**, comment using [this template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/crowdresearch/collective/master/docs/breaking_consensus). To find out more about this process, read the [how-to](https://github.com/crowdresearch/collective/blob/master/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Commit message:

Updating People Who Added section as suggested

docs/issue_template.md, after:

Add a proposal title above that concisely summarizes the problem or suggestion. For best results, add the title after adding all the other parts of this proposal so you can be sure that the title reflects the content.

## Problem
1. Replace this text with a clear statement of the problem that needs to be solved. If feasible, include specific evidence or examples (e.g., screen shots, data) in support of the understanding of the problem. If this is a bug, [report it in the Daemo repository](https://github.com/crowdresearch/daemo/issues/new) instead of here.


## Proposal
2. If you have a solution to this problem and you will implement it, replace this text with a clear statement of the solution you propose to implement, including any relevant supporting files. It can strengthen your proposal to include *pros* and *cons*. If you have no solution, remove this Proposal section.
3. Add yourself as an assignee to this proposal.
4. If this is a strategic milestone, add the `strategy` milestone.

### Implications
5. Replace this text with short-term (and, if relevant, long-term) implications of executing this proposal. If it is a strategy proposl, long-term implications are required.

## Person or People Who Added the Proposal to GitHub
6. Add Slack usernames of the people posting this proposal on behalf of the Collective.

_These names don't indicate that the person came up with this idea, unless explicitly mentioned._

<!--- Do not delete this section --->
---
**To officially join in**, add yourself as an assignee to the proposal. **To break consensus**, comment using [this template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/crowdresearch/collective/master/docs/breaking_consensus). To find out more about this process, read the [how-to](https://github.com/crowdresearch/collective/blob/master/docs/CONTRIBUTING.md).
